.\" @(#)Datamgr.conf.4	1.4 12/15/03
'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.TH Datamgr.conf 4 12/15/03
.SH NAME
Datamgr.conf \- config files for datamgr
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $FASTCONFIG/Datamgr/Datamgr.conf, ~/.datamgr.conf 
.SH DESCRIPTION

These are the configuration files for datamgr.  
The file in the $FASTCONFIG directory 
is read first, and then the file in the users home directory, if it exists.

These files set Tcl variables which define the behavior of datamgr(1).  They are
written in Tcl language, but here is a synopsis of all the Tcl syntax you really need to know
to edit the Datamgr.conf files:

The syntax to set a Tcl variable is 
.LP
.BI set\ VARNAME\  value
.LP
where 
.I value
can be a boolean value, a numeric value, a string quoted with double quotes "", 
or a whitespace-separated list surrounded by curly
braces {}.  Valid values for
.B VARNAME
are detailed below in the Variables section.  
.LP
Tcl keeps the environment in an associative array called env, so
the FASTCONFIG environment variable can be referenced, 
for example, as $env(FASTCONFIG).

.SH Variables
.TP
DATA_DIR
User data directory, in which datamgr stores LZP files.
TRUSTED_DIRS
A list of directories which datamgr won't give you the option to copy files from, because
they can be presumed to be permanantly online.  I don't really think this feature turned out
to be that useful, so I recommend leaving this list empty {}, and
setting COPY_OTHERS_FILES to false -- so datamgr will never copy a file that is already
online into your own DATA_DIR.  We all trust each other anyway, right?
.TP
INIT_CONFIG
A query configuration file, saved with the 'Save Query Criteria...' command in the 'File' menu, 
that you want 
.B datamgr 
to load on startup.  You can, for example, de-select "Query Results: Time Spans" by default
to save screen space and query processing time.
.TP
RSH
This can be set to the path to 
.B ssh 
on your machine, to use ssh instead of rsh when getting files from remote sites.
.TP
JUKEBOX_VOL_LIST 
Listing of volumes in a jukebox system.  Maintained by local jukebox software or 
downloaded through ftp from juneau's pub/dailies ftp directory.  This file is no
longer mandatory (since the jukeboxes may disappear).
.TP
JUKEBOX_HOST
The host of the jukeboxes for which JUKEBOX_VOL_LIST
lists all volumes.  If not set, then the '(J) Jukebox' checkbox will not appear in the File List 
window.
.TP
JUKEBOX_MOUNT_POINT
Path to the directory on JUKEBOX_HOST where the CDROM volumes can be accessed by volume name.
.TP
REMOTE_DOMAIN_HOSTS
List of hosts from which to get files from user data directories, or CDROM volumes which have
been added as data directories with trimFileList.  If not set,  then the '(r) Remote Data 
Directory' checkbox will not appear in the File List window.
.TP
REMOTE_ONLINE_VOL_HOST
Host which serves the online CDROM volume images listed in the OnlineVolumes table, updated
with update_vollist.  If used, this would be set to mammoth.ssl.berkeley.edu.  If not set, then
the '(R) Remote Online Volume' checkbox will not appear in the File List window.
.TP
LOCAL_ONLINE_VOL_HOST
Host on the local network which serves the online CDROM volume images listed in the OnlineVolumes
table, updated with update_vollist.  If set, then 
.B datamgr
will consider files in volumes on LOCAL_ONLINE_VOL_HOST as online.
.TP
REMOTE_JUKEBOX_HOST
If used, then the JUKEBOX_HOST is prioritized as a local jukebox.  update_vollist can 
place the UCSOC jukebox volume list into the OnlineVolumes table, so they can be seen
from remote sites if REMOTE_JUKEBOX_HOST is set to kenai.ssl.berkeley.edu (i.e. the 
JUKEBOX_HOST at UCSOC).
.TP
DATAFILE_LIST
Obsolete filelist used to keep track of user data directories.  Can be used by 
.B dmls
and 
.B fileListToDB
to keep a backup of the filelist in the fast_online database.
.TP
DBCONF
File (by default $env(FASTCONFIG)/fast_archive.conf) which contains login information
for Sybase.
.TP
CDROM_MOUNTPOINT
Mounpoint for cdroms in a local cdrom drive.
.IP COPY_OTHERS_FILES\ GET_JUKEBOX_FILE\ GET_CDROM_FILES\ GET_REMOTE_VOL_FILES\ GET_REMOTE_DIR_FILES\ GET_REMOTE_JUKEBOX_FILES
Boolean variables (set to true or false, or 1 or 0)  To select or de-select the corresponding data source
checkboxes in the File List window, by default.  I recommend setting COPY_OTHERS_FILES to false.


.SH SEE ALSO
whichfiles(1), datamgr(1), trimFileList(1), update_filelist(1), dmls(1), fileListToDB(1), update_vollist(1)
.LP
.SH BUGS
.LP
Watch this space

.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
The FAST software distribution must be installed and the environment must be set up by entering 
.IP
source /disks/fast/software/delivery/setup
.LP
integration or production may be subsitituted for delivery in the above.
.LP
.\".Ee
