.\" @(#)orbgen.1	1.6 04/18/95
.TH ORBGEN 1 "04/18/95"
.SH NAME
orbgen \- generate orbit files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBorbgen [-d \fIduration\fB] [-c \fIcomputation\fB] [-o \fIoutput\fB] [-f]
[-h] [-n orbit#] [\fIinfile\fB [\fIoutfile\fB]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBOrbgen\fR generates orbit data in the form of a FAST orbit data
file, given a set of orbital elements.  The output contains a sequence
of vectors giving position and velocity, and any or all of the additional
quantities supported by the FAST orbit data file format.  Output goes to
the specified \fIoutfile\fR or to stdout if \fIoutfile\fR isn't specified.
.sp
The \fIinfile\fR is also a FAST orbit file containing just a header
listing the initial orbit elements.  
An optional label record following the header will be used to specify which
of the orbit data quantities to include in the output file.
If no label record is present, all data quantities are computed.
Input comes from stdin if \fIinfile\fR
isn't specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-d \fIduration\fR"
Duration (in seconds) of output orbit data file.  Default:  10,000.
.IP "\fB-c \fIcomputation\fR"
Computation interval in seconds.  Default:  1.
.IP "\fB-o \fIoutput\fR"
Output interval in seconds.  Default:  10.
.IP "\fB-f  \fR"
Input is an FDF orbit vector, instead of a FAST Orbit file header.
All vector columns are computed, unless -h is also specified.
.IP "\fB-h  \fR"
Output one header and one vector per orbit, with no other vectors.
Only the TIME, position (X, Y, Z), and velocity (VX, VY, VZ) columns
are computed.
.IP "\fB-n \fIorbit#  \fR"
Use \fIorbit#\fR as the initial orbit number, instead of the number
specified in the input file.  Useful with FDF vectors, which don't
include orbit numbers.
.IP "\fB-q  "\fR"
"Quick computation"; ignore atmospheric drag.
.IP "\fB-z  "\fR
"Zippy computation"; use a simple gravitational model as well as
ignoring atmospheric drag.
.SH FILES
.IP \fIinfile\fR
Input orbit data file.
.IP \fIoutfile\fR
Output orbit data file.
.IP $FASTLIB/Fastorb/mag4wi.dat
Magnetic field model data.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
orbitlib(3), orbitprop(3), orbitfile(4)
